
## OverView ##
作为一个从C++转到Java的人，想到的STL标准的map不就一个么，底层红黑树，虽然search效率不如AVL树，但是insert和delete效率高，综合能力强，底层key还是排序的，按照key遍历顺序较快。STL也有hash map但是一直也不是标准。

Java中的map有三个，HashMap、TreeMap、LinkHashMap，java的集合框架的名字一般是 <Implementation-style><Interface>结构，前面是底层实现的数据结构，后面是接口，其他的分类可以参考Java8的集合框架的OverView[collections-overview](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/technotes/guides/collections/overview.html)。

<!-- 
|Interface|Hash Table|Resizable Array|Balanced Tree|Linked List|HashTable+LinkedList|
|----     | ---      |----           | ---         |----       | ---                |
|Set	  |HashSet   |               |	TreeSet	   |           | LinkedHashSet      |
|List	  |          | ArrayList     |             | LinkedList|	                |
|Deque	  | 	     |ArrayDeque	 |	           |LinkedDeque|	                |
|Map	  |HashMap	 |	             |TreeMap	   |           |LinkedHashMap       |
-->

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
	<th>Interface</th>
	<th>Hash Table</th>
	<th>Resizable Array</th>
	<th>Balanced Tree</th>
	<th>Linked List</th>
	<th>HashTable+LinkedList</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
	<td>Set</td>
	<td>HashSet</td>
	<td></td>
	<td>TreeSet</td>
	<td></td>
	<td>LinkedHashSet</td>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td>List</td>
	<td></td>
	<td>ArrayList</td>
	<td></td>
	<td>LinkedList</td>
	<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td>Deque</td>
	<td></td>
	<td>ArrayDeque</td>
	<td></td>
	<td>LinkedDeque</td>
	<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td>Map</td>
	<td>HashMap</td>
	<td></td>
	<td>TreeMap</td>
	<td></td>
	<td>LinkedHashMap</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

这篇的主题是左后一行，Map接口的三种实现。

## 三者区别 ##

## HashMap ##

Hash table based implementation of the Map interface. This implementation provides all of the optional map operations, and permits null values and the null key. (The HashMap class is roughly equivalent to Hashtable, except that it is unsynchronized and permits nulls.) This class makes no guarantees as to the order of the map; in particular, it does not guarantee that the order will remain constant over time.

This implementation provides constant-time performance for the basic operations (get and put), assuming the hash function disperses the elements properly among the buckets. Iteration over collection views requires time proportional to the "capacity" of the HashMap instance (the number of buckets) plus its size (the number of key-value mappings). Thus, it's very important not to set the initial capacity too high (or the load factor too low) if iteration performance is important.

An instance of HashMap has two parameters that affect its performance: initial capacity and load factor. The capacity is the number of buckets in the hash table, and the initial capacity is simply the capacity at the time the hash table is created. The load factor is a measure of how full the hash table is allowed to get before its capacity is automatically increased. When the number of entries in the hash table exceeds the product of the load factor and the current capacity, the hash table is rehashed (that is, internal data structures are rebuilt) so that the hash table has approximately twice the number of buckets.

As a general rule, the default load factor (.75) offers a good tradeoff between time and space costs. Higher values decrease the space overhead but increase the lookup cost (reflected in most of the operations of the HashMap class, including get and put). The expected number of entries in the map and its load factor should be taken into account when setting its initial capacity, so as to minimize the number of rehash operations. If the initial capacity is greater than the maximum number of entries divided by the load factor, no rehash operations will ever occur.

If many mappings are to be stored in a HashMap instance, creating it with a sufficiently large capacity will allow the mappings to be stored more efficiently than letting it perform automatic rehashing as needed to grow the table. Note that using many keys with the same hashCode() is a sure way to slow down performance of any hash table. To ameliorate impact, when keys are Comparable, this class may use comparison order among keys to help break ties.


[Java HashMap工作原理及实现](http://yikun.github.io/2015/04/01/Java-HashMap%E5%B7%A5%E4%BD%9C%E5%8E%9F%E7%90%86%E5%8F%8A%E5%AE%9E%E7%8E%B0/)

